so just before we start a challenge
there's one little bugs that I want to fix
and I just want to run it again and show you
what the bug was and you probably picked this up
in the last video so when we first start the dealer
score is showing 0 obviously the player scores
working and the reason that's doing that
if you closes this down and on the code on the bottom we've got the deal player
we call the deal_player function and we actually add the card to the
dealer hand and notice we are not calling a
function to print it to display anything
or anything along those lines whereas the deal_player function is sort of
self-contained and also outputs the
actual
scores as well on the screen so what we
want to do is make quick changes there
to actually show this score so its gonna be
dealer.....
...so basically we are just going
to display that's score so we've drawn a
card and we are going to show that on the screen once and then obviously
subsequent times its going to work
automatically when we click the dealer
button so if we run again now that should fix that so we got an
initial score and you can see its better now we got it working even
though the functions still work in that
once we pressed deal it is still going
to calculate this is a better way of
actually showing and obviously I got
slaughtered by dealer ok so that's
working so talking a little  bit about the challenge
its is going to be quite simple because just looking
at where we're at with the game now it
plays a reasonably good game of blackjack
and all the dealing is now taking
care of by the computer so we only need to
click on dealer once we are finish with our turn and the
rest of the game finishes and the deal
function deal_dealer function sort of handles that functionality to play the
game as far as a computer the is concern
their is a bit of annoying though which you see me to do having
to close the window and run the
program again for a new game and I
mentioned in the last video it's time
for a challenge so
just before I do that one final comment about
global variables you probably sick about
it now but we are harping on about it because
it's really important that you
understand this and get it to the right mind set about how to use them so you are aware of the
limitations you might be wondering why
the variables player_hand
and dealer_hand are not triggering
warnings about a local variable shadowing
the global ones because both the deal_player function if we go back and
have a look at that as you can see the deal_player function on line 78 and
the deal_dealer function
on line 64 they are both appending new
cards to the corresponding list so
wouldn't that count as modifying the
global variable in which make them local
because we talked about that in previous
videos
well the answer is that neither variable
is modified their initialized as lists
if you go down and have a look
we got player_hand and dealer_hand is initialization as you can see here in
line 152 and 153 and continue to reference
the same lists as long as the program
runs so adding items to list or removing
items from it is not modifying the list
variable it always has the same value
which is a list and the contents of a list
can change now adding items to a global
list is still a side effect but its not
considered as dangerous as changing the
list of the variable holds for example
lists exists to have items added and
removed and so consequently this is
acceptable behavior and that's why
IntelliJ is not actually warning of us
of that so it would still probably better to
pass the lists arguments to the
functions but as we can't provide parameters to functions that are used as button
commands we really don't have any choice
here but to use global list so that of
course why we went ahead and did that ok so
moving on now the challenge and its going to be
quite a simple one the challenges is to
add a new button to the program with the
text new game now the button should call a
function that clears the cards from the
screen it resets the players and dealers
hands and then starts a new game now the
easiest way to clear the contents of a
frame is to destroy the frame and create
a new one with the same name and in fact
that's why the program has a player_card_frame and dealer_card_frame
inside the card frame
itself so that's it go away and create a
new button with the text new game and again the functionality clear the cards
from the Screen reset the player and
dealers hands and then start a new game so
pause the video go away and see if you can come up with
a solution and when you're ready to see
our version of it come back and and I'll go through that with you pause the video now.....
...ok so hopefully you
managed to figure it out and have a
pretty good going getting it working so let's go through
what our solution is to implement this and
what we're going to do is create a new
function called new_game now the thing to remember here is
the most of the initialization code in
the main program concern setting up the GUI and so consequently we don't need to
repeat all of that every time a new game
started but the deal_card_frame
and player_card_frame will need to be cleared so
calling the destroy method will do that
and once that is done the list holding
the hands rather will need to be cleared and the
first 3 cards dealt and we can also make
a start on that now so let's do that
so I'm going to come down here after
deal_player lets add the method so....and so
we need to reference those global variables....
....
....ok so
first thing we want to do is....
.....
....
.....and
what I could have done just scrolling down
is just grab this code again....because its an identical code and obviously I could have done it as well for the dealer frame next we
clear the status of the game at the top wether
dealer wins or the player wins so....
..need to recreate the lists
and what we can do their I can come
down here and just copy this code
copy that and come back up here and paste it in....
...ok so obviously we've cleared
the player hands and dealer hands now and we
deal a new card and we will see also deal a new card for the dealer and another
card for the player again as we've done
previously and obviously because looking
at the code we also need to declare that we
want to use the global objects rather
than creating local variables and that's why
we used to global key word on line
88 to 91 now on Python 3 the 2
lists holding the hands could be cleared
using their .clear method and that just removes
all the items for them but it doesn't create
a new list so we could access to global
variables without declaring them in the
function however we've also written blackjack to work with Python 2 so instead
of that approach what we've done is we assigned empty
lists to the two variables you can see on
line 103 and 104 and that means they do have to
be declared s global and the function
for that to actually work now creating
the button itself is pretty easy we
already have a frame in place so let's add
that down below the initial
initialization code so....
...
....making sure we don't
use the brackets because we don't want
to execute that we just saying this is the
function to call anytime the buttons clicked we are
just gonna call that functionality then need to add it to the grid so.....
....
so that has added the button and just the other thing
we can take because you've notice we've got a lot
of code their that's being used so we can
actually call this new_game function if I
just scroll down I neet to put
some of this back so I'm going to copy
this bit of code here so we need to create those
variables initially down here and once
you've done that we can actually call
the new game functions so I'm gonna do that so....
and what we're trying to do is avoid
duplication of code because we had the
code here that we have originally placed
in there and so basically at the start
of the game we can go through and
just actually run this and we have got
a frame we are actually technically
destroying a frame and created it
creating it again but have what we are
doing is we are avoiding this duplication
of the code and not running it I should say sort of
in two places so the Idea is to put the
code and only executed it only once so lets try running that and see whether it works...
....and so
far so good we've now got another button for a
new game and players 14 so I'm
going to click on play another
card I should say so hit me and I
busted the dealer wins and now I click
new game starting again thats work and
strait away I obviously got blackjack which
is a good thing so I'm going to click on dealer and
I win because the player the dealer
busted
click on new game and click on play
and I got 21 again I'm having a great run here
and the dealer busts so click on new game again I've got 18 so I'm gonna just gonna hold
that and I win again and lets just see whether we
get the dealer to win so click on
dealer
the dealer is having a bad run their new
game
dealer again we got a draw this time so I talked
about that in the previous video wanting
to get it draw so we got that work new game
I'm going to click on dealer again and
lets see if we can get the dealer to win the dealer has a bad run with cards new game I'm
going to click on dealer again and finally we get
the dealer to win so that's working well
but we are gonna have a problem with this
and if we keep playing you should
eventually get an error so I will see if I can do a few more
games and you think what I'm doing this what
that error will be It might take a few more games for us to see it their we go we got it to actually crash so why
is it crashed well the reason it crashed is that we ran out of cards their is no
more cards remember we have we created the
deck of cards initially and we're not
refreshing those and we're not you know
once we reach the end the deck we are not
reinitializing that again and that is why it crashed now theirs
many ways to solve this but the obvious
one would be to create a new deck
list every time a new game has started by
just copying the two lines and
in other words if I just shut this down so the two
lines and actually that turn out to be in the
wrong place so the shuttle should
bee in strait after the deck when we
created it for the first time so what that
actually meant was that we didn't
execute the very first time the game is
played the shuffling of the decks so that was
my mistake putting that in the wrong place
but what we could do the obvious approach
would be to every time we create a new
game we basically execute these two
lines of code create a new deck of cards and shuffle them so that each game
literally like a standard game of blackjack with a new deck so that would be one way we can
actually put that code in the new_game function but we're gonna take
a slightly different approach here
so what we gonna do is every time a new
card is dealt it is going to be put back
at the bottom of the deck in other words
you just reusing the same deck
continually so in Python terms the object is going to be appended back to the list so
we want to do that in the deal_card frame and come back and have a look and you can see on line
35 were actually popping that so what we now need to do
is before we display it....
...so we added it back
again so.....
.....so that should be all
we need to do so this is actually
more realistic because it's like a real
game and that's because when normally play a game of blackjack you don't
start with the a brand new deck for every
single game do you just sort of just
keep using the same deck and that is what we
are doing here essentially now there's many
other improvements you could make to the
game if a new deck is not created for each new game
and the game could have an option to
shuffle and let's add that as well so you can
randomly click on a button and have it do a
shuttle for us to do that we can come down
to the end where we actually added the new game button
we're going to add a shuffle button so....
....
...and we now need
to write this function and the functions
is just going to shuffle so what I'm going to do there is
take that line out as well and call this
function so....
even thought we haven't written it yet we're gonna go ahead
ad write that now so gonna come up to
the last method up here and......
...and that should stopped those errors from showing up
now we are calling the shuttle function
and the command shuffle is now working alright
so let's run that and just make sure
that it is working
ok we now got a shuffle button so just click on shuffle
we are not getting any indication that's working but it's
also not crashing which is good so let's
have the dealer win but the dealer lost and that's probably
something you can also look at changing
you notice what happened there is the
dealer actually had 15 but I continue to
draw another card and that's because our
code had the logic that while the score
was 17 or less well less than 17 its going
to try and draw another card so  what it should
probably be doing is each time its drawing a
card its also checking to see whether it's
one or not that will be another enhancement you
can look at making to the game click on new game and click on dealer again 19 so the dealer won and click on shuffle on obviously I click on new game
that's good that's all working nicely and perhaps one other final thing you could do is you
could add a score how many games each
player's won and display the tally at the
top of the screen so have a go at modifying the game or to add that functionality that
will be a nice enhancement you can make and perhaps let us
know how you went about doing it and
maybe even show us the code
and also perhaps look at some other features
that feature that I just mentioned
there with the dealer when its going
to draw a new cards it's already
won it shouldn't be drawing another card as you saw do that because ultimately lost
because it didn't check the status to see whether it won
and I'm gonna finish the video here
now because its getting very long but their is one last
final mini challenge and that's what
would be how would you change the
program to play the game with several
packs of cards in other words just assuming your adding 2 or 3
packs of cards and you got one deck that
contains two or three packs how would
you actually do that so if you can figure
that out right now and pause the video and
I'll come back to me when you come back
I'll show you quickly how to do that
so pause the video now
...ok so the
solution to that the moment you can see
here on line 166 deck = list cards
that's one deck of cards so we could simply
just put.....
and effectively you've got three packs of
cards now that are being put into our
overall deck
and we're still calling the shuffle which
will go through quite happily shuffle
that entire deck which now contains the
three packs as I mentioned and looking at that the game
functions like it would before so
that's it I'm gonna finish the video
here and we'll move on now to more in
the way of modules I'm gonna be talking about
using your program itself as a module so
see you in the next video